add release notes for 7.5.2 (#17701)
pingcap/docs: releases/release-7.5.2.md

---
title: TiDB 7.5.2 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 7.5.2.
---

# TiDB 7.5.2 Release Notes

> Release date: xx xx, 2024

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Release date: June 6, 2024
```

> Release date: June xx, 2024

Author: ```suggestion
Release date: June 13, 2024
```

TiDB version: 7.5.2

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/production-deployment-using-tiup)

## Compatibility changes

> - Add a TiKV configuration item [`track-and-verify-wals-in-manifest`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.5/tikv-configuration-file#track-and-verify-wals-in-manifest-new-in-v659) for RocksDB, which helps you investigate possible corruption of Write Ahead Log (WAL) [#16549](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16549) @[v01dstar](https://github.com/v01dstar)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add a TiKV configuration item [`track-and-verify-wals-in-manifest`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tikv-configuration-file#track-and-verify-wals-in-manifest-new-in-v659-v715-and-v752) for RocksDB, which helps you investigate possible corruption of Write Ahead Log (WAL) [#16549](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16549) @[v01dstar](https://github.com/v01dstar)
```

> - Must set the line terminator when using `strict-format` or `SPLIT_FILE` [#37338](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37338) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Must set the line terminator when using TiDB Lightning `strict-format` or `SPLIT_FILE` to import CSV files [#37338](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37338) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
```

- Add the `sink.open.output-old-value` configuration item for TiCDC Open Protocol to control whether to output the value before the update to the downstream [#10916](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10916) @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy)

> - In earlier versions, when processing a transaction containing `UPDATE` changes, if the primary key or non-null unique index value is modified in an `UPDATE` event, TiCDC splits this event into `DELETE` and `INSERT` events. Starting from v7.5.2, when using the MySQL sink, TiCDC splits an `UPDATE` event into `DELETE` and `INSERT` events if the transaction `commitTS` for the `UPDATE` change is less than TiCDC `thresholdTs` (which is the current timestamp that TiCDC fetches from PD at TiCDC startup). This behavior change addresses the issue of downstream data inconsistencies caused by the potentially incorrect order of `UPDATE` events received by TiCDC, which can lead to an incorrect order of split `DELETE` and `INSERT` events. For more information, see [documentation](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/ticdc-behavior-change#mysql-sink). [#10918](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10918) @[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In earlier versions, when processing a transaction containing `UPDATE` changes, if the primary key or non-null unique index value is modified in an `UPDATE` event, TiCDC splits this event into `DELETE` and `INSERT` events. Starting from v7.5.2, when using the MySQL sink, TiCDC splits an `UPDATE` event into `DELETE` and `INSERT` events if the transaction `commitTS` for the `UPDATE` change is less than TiCDC `thresholdTS` (which is the current timestamp that TiCDC fetches from PD at TiCDC startup). This behavior change addresses the issue of downstream data inconsistencies caused by the potentially incorrect order of `UPDATE` events received by TiCDC, which can lead to an incorrect order of split `DELETE` and `INSERT` events. For more information, see [documentation](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/ticdc-behavior-change#mysql-sink). [#10918](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10918) @[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu)
```

> - In earlier versions, when processing a transaction containing `UPDATE` changes, if the primary key or non-null unique index value is modified in an `UPDATE` event, TiCDC splits this event into `DELETE` and `INSERT` events. Starting from v7.5.2, when using the MySQL sink, TiCDC splits an `UPDATE` event into `DELETE` and `INSERT` events if the transaction `commitTS` for the `UPDATE` change is less than TiCDC `thresholdTS` (which is the current timestamp that TiCDC fetches from PD at TiCDC startup). This behavior change addresses the issue of downstream data inconsistencies caused by the potentially incorrect order of `UPDATE` events received by TiCDC, which can lead to an incorrect order of split `DELETE` and `INSERT` events. For more information, see [documentation](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/ticdc-behavior-change#mysql-sink). [#10918](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10918) @[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In earlier versions, when processing a transaction containing `UPDATE` changes, if the primary key or non-null unique index value is modified in an `UPDATE` event, TiCDC splits this event into `DELETE` and `INSERT` events. Starting from v7.5.2, when using the MySQL sink, TiCDC splits an `UPDATE` event into `DELETE` and `INSERT` events if the transaction `commitTS` for the `UPDATE` change is less than TiCDC `thresholdTS` (which is the current timestamp fetched from PD when TiCDC starts replicating the corresponding table to the downstream). This behavior change addresses the issue of downstream data inconsistencies caused by the potentially incorrect order of `UPDATE` events received by TiCDC, which can lead to an incorrect order of split `DELETE` and `INSERT` events. For more information, see [documentation](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/ticdc-behavior-change#mysql-sink). [#10918](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10918) @[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu)
```

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - Optimize the issue that the `ANALYZE` statement blocks the metadata lock [#47475](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47475) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)
    - Improve the MySQL compatibility of expression default values displayed in the output of `SHOW CREATE TABLE` [#52939](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52939) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)
    - Enhance the handling of DNF items that are always `false` by directly ignoring such filter conditions, thus avoiding unnecessary full table scans [#40997](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40997) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
    - Optimize the statistics for the execution process of the TiFlash `TableScan` operator in `EXPLAIN ANALYZE` [#51727](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51727) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)
    - Remove stores without Regions during MPP load balancing [#52313](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52313) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)

> 

Author: ```suggestion
    - (dup): release-7.1.5.md > 改进提升> TiDB - 支持从 PD 批量加载 Region，加快在对大表进行查询时，从 KV Range 到 Regions 的转换过程 [#51326](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51326) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise)

```

+ TiKV

    - Adjust the log level of coprocessor errors from `warn` to `debug` to reduce unnecessary logs of the cluster [#15881](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15881) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)
    - Add monitoring metrics for the queue time for processing CDC events to facilitate troubleshooting downstream CDC event latency issues [#16282](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16282) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)
    - Avoid performing IO operations on snapshot files in raftstore threads to improve TiKV stability [#16564](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16564) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)
    - Add slow logs for peer and store messages [#16600](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16600) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)
    - When TiKV detects the existence of corrupted SST files, it logs the specific reasons for the corruption [#16308](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16308) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
    - Remove unnecessary async blocks to reduce memory usage [#16540](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16540) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)

> 

Author: ```suggestion
    - (dup): release-8.1.0.md > 改进提升> TiKV - 加快 TiKV 停机的速度 [#16680](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16680) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)

```

        - Significantly improve the stability of data replication in transaction conflict scenarios, with up to 10 times performance improvement [#10896](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10896) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - Enable the PD client forwarding function to make TiCDC more stable during network isolation between TiCDC and the PD leader [#10849](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10849) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
        - Improve the initialization speed of replication tasks [#11124](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11124) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
        - Initialize replication tasks asynchronously to reduce initialization time for the processor and owner [#10845](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10845) @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy)
        - Detect the Kafka cluster version automatically to improve compatibility with Kafka [#10852](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10852) @[wk989898](https://github.com/wk989898)

> 

Author: ```suggestion
        - (dup): release-6.5.8.md > 改进提升> Tools> TiCDC - 支持[查询 changefeed 的下游同步状态](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v6.5/ticdc-open-api-v2#查询特定同步任务是否完成)，以确认 TiCDC 是否已将所接收到的上游变更完全同步到下游 [#10289](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10289) @[hongyunyan](https://github.com/hongyunyan)

```

    - Fix the issue that the `final` AggMode and the `non-final` AggMode cannot coexist in Massively Parallel Processing (MPP) [#51362](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51362) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
    - Fix the issue that a wrong TableDual plan causes empty query results [#50051](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50051) @[onlyacat](https://github.com/onlyacat)
    - Fix the issue that TiDB might panic when initializing statistics after enabling both `lite-init-stats` and `concurrently-init-stats` [#52223](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52223) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - Fix the issue that `NO_JOIN` hints do not work with `CREATE BINDING` [#52813](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52813) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - Fix the issue that subqueries included in the `ALL` function might cause incorrect results [#52755](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52755) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - Fix the issue that `VAR_SAMP()` cannot be used as a window function [#52933](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52933) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)

>     - Fix the issue that column pruning without using the shallow copies of slices might cause TiDB to panic [#52768](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52768) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that column pruning without using shallow copies of slices might cause TiDB to panic [#52768](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52768) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
```

    - Fix the issue that the `SURVIVAL_PREFERENCES` attribute might not appear in the output of the `SHOW CREATE PLACEMENT POLICY` statement under certain conditions [#51699](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51699) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
    - Fix the issue that IndexJoin produces duplicate rows when calculating hash values in the Left Outer Anti Semi type [#52902](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52902) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87)
    - Fix the issue that the `TIMESTAMPADD()` function returns incorrect results [#41052](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41052) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)
    - Fix the issue that data conversion from the `FLOAT` type to the `UNSIGNED` type returns incorrect results [#41736](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41736) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)
    - Fix the issue that the `TRUNCATE()` function returns incorrect results when its second argument is a large negative number [#52978](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52978) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87)

> 

Author: ```suggestion
    - (dup): release-8.1.0.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复打印 gRPC 错误日志时 TiDB 意外重启的问题 [#51301](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51301) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)

```

        - Fix the issue that TiKV panics when a full backup fails to find a peer in some extreme cases [#16394](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16394) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - Fix the issue that removing a log backup task after it is paused does not immediately restore the GC safepoint [#52082](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52082) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
        - Fix the unstable test case `TestClearCache` [#50743](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50743) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
        - Fix the issue that BR fails to restore a transactional KV cluster due to an empty `EndKey` [#52574](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52574) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
        - Fix the issue that the transfer of PD leaders might cause BR to panic when restoring data [#53724](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53724) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

> 

Author: ```suggestion
        - (dup): release-6.5.9.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复在包含 `AUTO_RANDOM` 列的联合聚簇索引中，BR 无法备份 `AUTO_RANDOM` ID 分配进度的问题 [#52255](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52255) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

```

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - Optimize the issue that the `ANALYZE` statement blocks the metadata lock [#47475](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47475) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)
    - Improve the MySQL compatibility of expression default values displayed in the output of `SHOW CREATE TABLE` [#52939](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52939) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)
    - Enhance the handling of DNF items that are always `false` by directly ignoring such filter conditions, thus avoiding unnecessary full table scans [#40997](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40997) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
    - Optimize the statistics for the execution process of the TiFlash `TableScan` operator in `EXPLAIN ANALYZE` [#51727](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51727) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)
    - Remove stores without Regions during MPP load balancing [#52313](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52313) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)

>     - (dup): release-7.1.5.md > 改进提升> TiDB - Support loading Regions in batch from PD to speed up the conversion process from the KV range to Regions when querying large tables [#51326](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51326) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Support loading Regions in batch from PD to speed up the conversion process from the KV range to Regions when querying large tables [#51326](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51326) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise)
```

>     - On the `Resource Control` monitoring page, add a new panel `RU(Max)` to show the maximum RU consumption rate for each resource group [#49318] (https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49318) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)

Author: ```suggestion
    - On the `Resource Control` monitoring page, add a new panel `RU(Max)` to show the maximum RU consumption rate for each resource group [#49318](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49318) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
```

    - Improve sync load performance to reduce latency in loading statistics [#52994](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52294) [hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)

>     - Increase concurrency of statistics initialization to speed up startup [#52466] (https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52466) [#52102](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52102) [#52553](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52553) [hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Increase concurrency of statistics initialization to speed up startup [#52466](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52466) [#52102](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52102) [#52553](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52553) [hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
```

>     - Increase concurrency of init-stats to speed up startup [#52466] (https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52466) [#52102](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52102) [#52553](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52553) [hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Increase concurrency of statistics initialization to speed up startup [#52466] (https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52466) [#52102](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52102) [#52553](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52553) [hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
```

+ TiKV

    - Adjust the log level of coprocessor errors from `warn` to `debug` to reduce unnecessary logs of the cluster [#15881](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15881) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)
    - Add monitoring metrics for the queue time for processing CDC events to facilitate troubleshooting downstream CDC event latency issues [#16282](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16282) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)
    - Avoid performing IO operations on snapshot files in raftstore threads to improve TiKV stability [#16564](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16564) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)
    - Add slow logs for peer and store messages [#16600](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16600) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)
    - When TiKV detects the existence of corrupted SST files, it logs the specific reasons for the corruption [#16308](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16308) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
    - Remove unnecessary async blocks to reduce memory usage [#16540](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16540) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)

>     - (dup): release-8.1.0.md > 改进提升> TiKV - Accelerate the shutdown speed of TiKV [#16680](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16680) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Accelerate the shutdown speed of TiKV [#16680](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16680) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)
```

        - Significantly improve the stability of data replication in transaction conflict scenarios, with up to 10 times performance improvement [#10896](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10896) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - Enable the PD client forwarding function to make TiCDC more stable during network isolation between TiCDC and the PD leader [#10849](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10849) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
        - Improve the initialization speed of replication tasks [#11124](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11124) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
        - Initialize replication tasks asynchronously to reduce initialization time for the processor and owner [#10845](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10845) @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy)
        - Detect the Kafka cluster version automatically to improve compatibility with Kafka [#10852](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10852) @[wk989898](https://github.com/wk989898)

>         - (dup): release-6.5.8.md > 改进提升> Tools> TiCDC - Support [querying the downstream synchronization status of a changefeed](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/ticdc-open-api-v2#query-whether-a-specific-replication-task-is-completed), which helps you determine whether the upstream data changes received by TiCDC have been synchronized to the downstream system completely [#10289](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10289) @[hongyunyan](https://github.com/hongyunyan)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
this issue was already added in [v7.5.1](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/release-7.5.1)

    - Fix the issue that IndexJoin produces duplicate rows when calculating hash values in the Left Outer Anti Semi type [#52902](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52902) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87)
    - Fix the issue that the `TIMESTAMPADD()` function returns incorrect results [#41052](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41052) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)
    - Fix the issue that data conversion from the `FLOAT` type to the `UNSIGNED` type returns incorrect results [#41736](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41736) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)
    - Fix the issue that the `TRUNCATE()` function returns incorrect results when its second argument is a large negative number [#52978](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52978) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87)
    - Fix the issue that duplicated panel IDs in Grafana might cause abnormal display [#51556](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51556) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)

>     - (dup): release-8.1.0.md > 错误修复> TiDB - Fix the issue that TiDB unexpectedly restarts when logging gRPC errors [#51301](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51301) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiDB unexpectedly restarts when logging gRPC errors [#51301](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51301) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)
```

    - Fix the issue that TiDB loading statistics during startup might cause OOM [#52219](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52219) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)

>     - Fix the issue that the TTL job for a table does not stop after the table is deleted [#51540](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51540) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the TTL job for a table does not stop after the table is deleted [#51540](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51540) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)

```

        - Fix the issue that TiKV panics when a full backup fails to find a peer in some extreme cases [#16394](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16394) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - Fix the issue that removing a log backup task after it is paused does not immediately restore the GC safepoint [#52082](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52082) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
        - Fix the unstable test case `TestClearCache` [#50743](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50743) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
        - Fix the issue that BR fails to restore a transactional KV cluster due to an empty `EndKey` [#52574](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52574) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
        - Fix the issue that the transfer of PD leaders might cause BR to panic when restoring data [#53724](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53724) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

>         - (dup): release-6.5.9.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - Fix the issue that BR could not back up the `AUTO_RANDOM` ID allocation progress in a union clustered index that contains an `AUTO_RANDOM` column [#52255](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52255) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that BR could not back up the `AUTO_RANDOM` ID allocation progress in a union clustered index that contains an `AUTO_RANDOM` column [#52255](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52255) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
```

    - (dup): release-8.1.0.md > 改进提升> TiDB - 增强 TiDB 对始终为 `false` 的 DNF 项的处理能力，直接忽略这种过滤条件，以避免不必要的全表扫描 [#40997](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40997) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
    - 优化 `EXPLAIN ANALYZE` 中 TiFlash TableScan 算子执行过程的统计信息 [#51727](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51727) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)
    - 在 MPP 负载均衡时移除不包含任何 Region 的 Store [#52313](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52313) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)
    - 修复 TiDB 可能向未准备就绪的 TiKV 发起请求的问题 [#50758](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50758) @[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan)
    - 修复滚动重启 TiKV 后可能导致 stale read 不命中的问题 [#52193](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52193) @[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan)
    - 修复 kv request 重试时可能存在 data race 并导致 panic 的问题 [#51921](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51921) @[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan)
    - 修复解析索引数据时可能发生 panic 的问题 [#47115](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47115) @[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan)

+ TiKV <!--tw@qiancai 3 条-->

>     - 消除某些节点 check-leader 慢对 resolved-ts 的影响 https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15999 @[crazycs520](https://github.com/crazycs520)
>     - 修复残留的过期副本可能导致 restolved-ts 卡住的问题 https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16561 @[tonyxuqqi](https://github.com/tonyxuqqi)
>     - 调整 coprocessor 的日志级别，减少生产集群不必要的日志 https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15881 @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Adjust the log level of coprocessors to reduce unnecessary logs in the cluster [#15881](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15881) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)
    - Add monitoring metrics for the duration of waiting for CDC events processing to facilitate troubleshooting downstream CDC event latency issues [#16282](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16282) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)

```

        - (dup): release-6.5.9.md > 改进提升> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 提高日志备份对 Merge 的容忍度，如果遇到合理的长时间 Merge 操作，日志备份任务不容易进入 Error 状态 [#16554](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16554) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
        - (dup): release-6.5.7.md > 改进提升> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 提升了 `RESTORE` 语句在大数据量表场景下的建表性能 [#48301](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48301) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - (dup): release-8.0.0.md > 改进提升> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 支持在恢复过程中提前分配好 Table ID，从而最大限度地复用 Table ID，提升恢复性能 [#51736](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51736) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - (dup): release-7.1.5.md > 改进提升> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 移除日志备份启动时检查是否存在活动 DDL job 的无效检查 [#52733](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52733) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - (dup): release-6.5.9.md > 改进提升> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 移除使用 Google Cloud Storage (GCS) 作为外部存储时一个过时的兼容性检查 [#50533](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50533) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

>         - 增加备份恢复对 pd 因为 dns 错误失败的重试[#53029](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53029) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Increase the number of retries for failures caused by DNS errors [#53029](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53029) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
```

    + TiCDC <!--tw@hfxsd 5 条-->

        - (dup): release-8.1.0.md > 改进提升> Tools> TiCDC - 提升使用 redo log 恢复数据过程中的内存稳定性，减少 OOM 的概率 [#10900](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10900) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - (dup): release-8.1.0.md > 改进提升> Tools> TiCDC - 显著提升事务冲突场景中的数据同步的稳定性，性能最高提升可达 10 倍 [#10896](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10896) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)

>         - 开启 PD client 转发功能，提升 TiCDC 在和 PD leader 之间存在网络隔离时 TiCDC 的稳定性. [#10849](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10849) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
>         - 提升同步任务初始化速度 [#11124]([https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11124]@[asddongmen]([https://github.com/asddongmen]
>         - 异步初始同步任务，减少 processor 和 owner 的初始化时间  [#10845](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10845) @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy)
>         - 自动探测 Kafka 集群版本, 提升与 Kafka 的兼容性 [#10852](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10852) @[wk989898](https://github.com/wk989898)
>         - 针对 Open Protocol, 添加 `sink.open.output-old-value`  配置项来控制是否输出更新前的值到下游. [#10916](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10916)) @[sdojjy]([https://github.com/sdojjy)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Enable the PD client forwarding function to make TiCDC more stable during network isolation between TiCDC and the PD leader [#10849](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10849) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
        - Improve the initialization speed of the replication task [#11124](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11124) @[asddongmen]([https://github.com/asddongmen]
        - Initialize replication tasks asynchronously to reduce initialization time for the processor and owner [#10845](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10845) @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy)
        - Detect the Kafka cluster version automatically to improve compatibility with Kafka [#10852](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10852) @[wk989898](https://github.com/wk989898)
        - Add the `sink.open.output-old-value` configuration item for TiCDC Open Protocol to control whether to output the value before the update to the downstream [#10916](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10916) @[sdojjy]([https://github.com/sdojjy)
```

    - (dup): release-7.1.5.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复某些情况下 `SHOW CREATE PLACEMENT POLICY` 语句不显示 `SURVIVAL_PREFERENCES` 属性的问题 [#51699](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51699) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)

+ TiKV <!--tw@qiancai 11 条-->

    - 修复 thread id 在日志中不能正确显示的问题 [#16398](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16398) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
    - 修复不稳定的测试用例 [#16871](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16871) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)
    - 修复 binary 转 json 过程中可能发生的 panic 问题 [#16616](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16616) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
    - tikv-ctl 的 `raft region` 命令输出 raft state 信息 [#17037](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17037) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)
    - 消除某些节点 check-leader 慢对 resolved-ts 的影响 [#15999](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15999) @[crazycs520](https://github.com/crazycs520)
    - 添加 CDC event 的等待处理时长监控，便于排查下游 CDC event 延迟问题 [#16282](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16282) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)
    - 修复残留的过期副本可能导致 restolved-ts 卡住的问题 [#16561](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16561) @[tonyxuqqi](https://github.com/tonyxuqqi)

>     - 修复 decimal fraction 在某些情况下结果不对的问题 [#16913](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16913) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi)
>     - 修复 conv 操作可能的 overflow 导致 TiKV panic 的问题 [#16969](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16969) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the decimal part of the `DECIMAL` type is incorrect in some cases[#16913](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16913) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi)
    - Fix the issue that the `CONV()` function in queries might overflow during numeric system conversion, leading to TiKV panic [#16969](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16969) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi)
```

>     - 调整 coprocessor 的日志级别，减少生产集群不必要的日志 [#15881](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15881) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>     - note [#issue](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/${issue-id}) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

        - (dup): release-8.1.0.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复恢复暂停的日志备份任务时，如果与 PD 的网络连接不稳定可能导致 TiKV panic 的问题 [#17020](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17020) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
        - (dup): release-7.1.5.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复一个不稳定的测试用例 [#52547](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52547) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - (dup): release-8.1.0.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复在 BR 恢复数据或 TiDB Lightning 物理导入模式下导入数据时，从 PD 获取到的 Region 没有 Leader 的问题 [#51124](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51124) [#50501](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50501) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - (dup): release-6.5.9.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复在某些极端情况下，全量备份因找不到 peer 导致 TiKV panic 的问题 [#16394](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16394) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - (dup): release-6.5.9.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复在日志备份任务被暂停后，移除任务无法立即恢复 GC safepoint 的问题 [#52082](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52082) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)

>         - 修复不稳定测试用例 TestClearCache [#50743](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50743) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
>         - 修复事务 kv 恢复因为 end_key 为空失败的问题 [#52574](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52574) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Fix the unstable test case `TestClearCache` [#50743](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50743) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
        - Fix the issue that BR fails to restore a transactional KV cluster due to an empty `EndKey` [#52574](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52574) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
```

        - (dup): release-8.1.0.md > 错误修复> Tools> TiCDC - 修复重启 PD 可能导致 TiCDC 节点报错重启的问题 [#10799](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10799) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
        - (dup): release-6.5.9.md > 错误修复> Tools> TiCDC - 修复 `open-protocol` 的 old value 部分错误地按照 `STRING` 类型而非真正类型输出默认值的问题 [#10803](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10803) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
        - (dup): release-8.1.0.md > 错误修复> Tools> TiCDC - 修复 `TIMEZONE` 类型的值没有按照正确的时区设置默认值的问题 [#10931](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10931) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
        - (dup): release-7.1.5.md > 错误修复> Tools> TiCDC - 修复上游写入 `Exchange Partition ... With Validation` DDL 后，TiCDC 向下游执行该 DDL 时失败，导致 changefeed 卡住的问题 [#10859](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10859) @[hongyunyan](https://github.com/hongyunyan)
        - (dup): release-6.5.9.md > 错误修复> Tools> TiCDC - 修复 KV Client 数据争用导致 TiCDC panic 的问题 [#10718](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10718) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)

>         - 修复上游更新唯一键时可能导致上下游数据不一致的问题 [#10918](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10918) @[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that when upstream updates the unique key, it might cause data inconsistency between upstream and downstream [#10918](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10918) @[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu)
```

---
title: TiDB 7.5.2 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 7.5.2.
---

# TiDB 7.5.2 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 2024

TiDB version: 7.5.2

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/production-deployment-using-tiup)

> ## Compatibility changes <!--tw@Oreoxmt 1 条-->

Author: ```suggestion
## Compatibility changes <!--tw@lilin90 1 条-->
```

    - Fix the connection blocking issue by upgrading `go-mysql` [#11041](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11041) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
    - Fix the issue that TiDB might report an error due to GC when loading statistics at startup [#53592](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53592) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)
    - Fix the issue that TiDB might send requests to unready TiKV nodes [#50758](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50758) @[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan)
    - Fix the issue that Stale Read might miss after a TiKV rolling restart [#52193](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52193) @[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan)
    - Fix the issue that data race might occur during KV request retries, leading to TiDB panics [#51921](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51921) @[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan)
    - Fix the issue that TiDB might panic when parsing index data [#47115](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47115) @[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan)

>     - (dup): release-7.1.5.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复添加唯一索引可能导致 TiDB panic 的问题 [#52312](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52312) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)

Author: ```suggestion
    - 修复 JOIN 条件可能为 CAST 函数时导致 panic 的问题 [#46556](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46556) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - 修复 YEAR 类型与超出范围的无符号整数比较导致错误结果的问题 [#50235](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50235) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - 修复 Update List 中包含子查询可能会导致 panic 的问题 [#53271](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/53271) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
    - 修复 `longlong` 类型在谓词中会溢出的问题 [#45783](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45783) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - 修复 `SELECT INTO OUTFILE` 在聚簇索引作为谓词时不生效的问题 [#42093](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42093) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - 修复 TopN 可能被错误下推的问题 [#53412](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/53412) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - 修复可能出现空 Projection 导致 panic 得问题 [#49109](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49109) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
    - 修复当索引计划保持有序时，索引合并不应下推 partial limit 的问题 [#52947](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52947) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
    - 修复在 recursive CTE 中无法使用 view 的问题 [#49721](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49721) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - 修复 `UPSATE` 语句可能因为 column 的 unique ID 不稳定导致查询报错的问题 [#53236](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53236) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
    - 修复使用 `SHOW ERRORS` 语句并且包含永远为 `true` 的谓词时导致 panic 得问题 [#46962](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46962) @[elsa0520](https://github.com/elsa0520)
    - 修复 MPP 中 `final agg` 和 `non-final` 模式无法共存的问题 [#53475](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/53475) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
    - 修复错误的 TableDual 计划导致查询错误的问题 [#50051](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50051) @[onlyacat](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/commits?author=onlyacat)
    - 修复在初始化统计信息的时候可能 panic 的问题 [#52223](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52223) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - 修复 `no_join` 相关 Hint 无法与 SQL binding 一起使用的问题 [#52813](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52813) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - 修复 all 操作中包含子查询时可能会出现错误结果的问题 [#52755](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52755) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - 修复 `var_samp` 无法作为窗口函数的问题 [#52933](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52933) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
    - 修复列裁剪可能会导致 panic 的问题 [#52768](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52768) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
    - (dup): release-7.1.5.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复添加唯一索引可能导致 TiDB panic 的问题 [#52312](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52312) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)
```

        - (dup): release-8.1.0.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复在 BR 恢复数据或 TiDB Lightning 物理导入模式下导入数据时，从 PD 获取到的 Region 没有 Leader 的问题 [#51124](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51124) [#50501](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50501) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - (dup): release-6.5.9.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复在某些极端情况下，全量备份因找不到 peer 导致 TiKV panic 的问题 [#16394](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16394) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - (dup): release-6.5.9.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复在日志备份任务被暂停后，移除任务无法立即恢复 GC safepoint 的问题 [#52082](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52082) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
        - Fix the unstable test case `TestClearCache` [#50743](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50743) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
        - Fix the issue that BR fails to restore a transactional KV cluster due to an empty `EndKey` [#52574](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52574) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)

> 

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that rolling of the PD leader might cause BR to panic when restoring data [#53724](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53724) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

```

---
title: TiDB 7.5.2 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 7.5.2.
---

# TiDB 7.5.2 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 2024

TiDB version: 7.5.2

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/production-deployment-using-tiup)

## Compatibility changes <!--tw@lilin90 1 条-->

- (dup): release-6.5.9.md > 兼容性变更 - 在 TiKV 中提供 RocksDB [`track-and-verify-wals-in-manifest`](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v6.5/tikv-configuration-file#track-and-verify-wals-in-manifest-从-v659-版本开始引入) 配置，用于调查 WAL (Write Ahead Log) 可能损坏问题 [#16549](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16549) @[v01dstar](https://github.com/v01dstar)
- (dup): release-7.1.4.md > 兼容性变更 - 为减少日志打印的开销，TiFlash 配置项 `logger.level` 默认值由 `"debug"` 改为 `"info"` [#8641](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8641) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
- Must set the line terminator when using `strict-format` or `SPLIT_FILE` [#37338](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37338) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

> 

Author: ```suggestion
- Add the `sink.open.output-old-value` configuration item for TiCDC Open Protocol to control whether to output the value before the update to the downstream [#10916](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10916) @[sdojjy]([https://github.com/sdojjy)

```

## Improvements

+ TiDB <!--tw@Oreoxmt 2 条-->

    - (dup): release-6.5.9.md > 改进提升> TiDB - 优化 `ANALYZE` 语句卡住元数据锁的问题 [#47475](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47475) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)
    - (dup): release-8.1.0.md > 改进提升> TiDB - 优化表达式默认值在 `SHOW CREATE TABLE` 结果中的 MySQL 兼容性 [#52939](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52939) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)
    - (dup): release-8.1.0.md > 改进提升> TiDB - 增强 TiDB 对始终为 `false` 的 DNF 项的处理能力，直接忽略这种过滤条件，以避免不必要的全表扫描 [#40997](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40997) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
    - Optimize the statistics for the execution process of the TiFlash `TableScan` operator in `EXPLAIN ANALYZE` [#51727](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51727) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)
    - Remove stores without Regions during MPP load balancing [#52313](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52313) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)

+ TiKV <!--tw@qiancai 2 条-->

>     - Adjust the log level of coprocessors to reduce unnecessary logs of the cluster [#15881](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15881) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Adjust the log level of coprocessor errors from `warn` to `debug` to reduce unnecessary logs of the cluster [#15881](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15881) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)
```

Reviewer: @Oreoxmt PTAL, thanks

        - (dup): release-8.1.0.md > 改进提升> Tools> TiCDC - 显著提升事务冲突场景中的数据同步的稳定性，性能最高提升可达 10 倍 [#10896](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10896) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - Enable the PD client forwarding function to make TiCDC more stable during network isolation between TiCDC and the PD leader [#10849](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10849) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
        - Improve the initialization speed of the replication task [#11124](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11124) @[asddongmen]([https://github.com/asddongmen]
        - Initialize replication tasks asynchronously to reduce initialization time for the processor and owner [#10845](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10845) @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy)
        - Detect the Kafka cluster version automatically to improve compatibility with Kafka [#10852](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10852) @[wk989898](https://github.com/wk989898)

>         - Add the `sink.open.output-old-value` configuration item for TiCDC Open Protocol to control whether to output the value before the update to the downstream [#10916](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10916) @[sdojjy]([https://github.com/sdojjy)

Author: ```suggestion
```

    - Fix the issue that Stale Read might miss after a TiKV rolling restart [#52193](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52193) @[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan)
    - Fix the issue that data race might occur during KV request retries, leading to TiDB panics [#51921](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51921) @[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan)
    - Fix the issue that TiDB might panic when parsing index data [#47115](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47115) @[zyguan](https://github.com/zyguan)
 <!--tw@hfxsd 18 条-->
    - Fix the issue that TiDB might panic when the JOIN condition contains an implicit type conversion [#46556](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46556) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - Fix the issue that comparing a column of `YEAR` type with an unsigned integer that is out of range causes incorrect results [#50235](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50235) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - Fix the issue that subqueries in an `UPDATE` list might cause TiDB to panic [#52687](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52687) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)

>     - Fix the issue that the `Longlong` type overflows in a predicate [#45783](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45783) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the overflow issue of the `Longlong` type in predicates [#45783](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45783) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
```

    - Fix the issue that `SELECT INTO OUTFILE` does not work when clustered indexes are used as predicates [#42093](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/42093) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)

>     - Fix the issue that TopN might be pushed down incorrectly [#37986](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37986) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the TopN operator might be pushed down incorrectly [#37986](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37986) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
```

    - Fix the issue that an empty projection causes TiDB to panic [#49109](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49109) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
    - Fix the issue that Index Merge incorrectly pushes partial limit down when index plans are kept ordered [#52947](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52947) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)

>     - Fix the issue that a view does not work in recursive CTE [#49721](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49721) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that using a view does not work in recursive CTE [#49721](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49721) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
```

>     - Fix the issue that the `UPDATE` statement might cause query errors due to unstable unique IDs of columns [#53236](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53236) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that unstable unique IDs of columns might cause the `UPDATE` statement to return query errors [#53236](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53236) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
```

>     - Fix the issue that TiDB panics when using the `SHOW ERRORS` statement with a predicate that is always `true` [#46962](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46962) @[elsa0520](https://github.com/elsa0520)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiDB panics when executing the `SHOW ERRORS` statement with a predicate that is always `true` [#46962](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46962) @[elsa0520](https://github.com/elsa0520)
```

>     - Fix the issue that the `final` AggMode and the `non-final` AggMode can not coexist in Massively Parallel Processing (MPP) [#51362](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51362) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the `final` AggMode and the `non-final` AggMode cannot coexist in Massively Parallel Processing (MPP) [#51362](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51362) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
```

    - Fix the issue that a wrong TableDual plan causes empty query results [#50051](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50051) @[onlyacat](https://github.com/onlyacat)
    - Fix the issue that TiDB might panic when initializing statistics after enabling both `lite-init-stats` and `concurrently-init-stats` [#52223](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52223) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - Fix the issue that `NO_JOIN` hints do not work with `CREATE BINDING` [#52813](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52813) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - Fix the issue that subqueries included in the `ALL` function might cause incorrect results [#52755](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52755) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)

>     - Fix the issue that `VAR_SAMP()` can not be used as a window function [#52933](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52933) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that `VAR_SAMP()` cannot be used as a window function [#52933](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52933) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
```

    - (dup): release-7.1.5.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复当配置文件中出现不合规的配置项时，配置文件不生效的问题 [#51399](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51399) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
    - (dup): release-6.5.9.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复当 SQL 语句中包含 `JOIN` 且 `SELECT` 列表只包含常量时，使用 MPP 执行查询可能导致查询结果出错的问题 [#50358](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50358) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87)
    - (dup): release-8.0.0.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复在 `determinate` 模式下 (`tidb_opt_objective='determinate'`)，如果查询不包含谓词，可能无法加载统计信息的问题 [#48257](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48257) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate)
    - (dup): release-7.1.5.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复某些情况下 `SHOW CREATE PLACEMENT POLICY` 语句不显示 `SURVIVAL_PREFERENCES` 属性的问题 [#51699](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51699) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao) <!--tw@qiancai 以下 4 条-->
    - Fix the issue that IndexJoin produces duplicate rows when calculating hash values in the Left Outer Anti Semi type [#52902](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52902) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87)

>     - Fix the issue that `TIMESTAMPADD()` function returns incorrect results [#41052](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41052) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the `TIMESTAMPADD()` function returns incorrect results [#41052](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41052) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)
```

    - Fix the issue that data conversion from the `FLOAT` type to the `UNSIGNED` type returns incorrect results [#41736](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41736) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)

>     - Fix the issue the `TRUNCATE()` function returns incorrect results when its second argument is a large negative number [#52978](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52978) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the `TRUNCATE()` function returns incorrect results when its second argument is a large negative number [#52978](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52978) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87)
```

    - Fix the issue of unstable test cases, ensuring that each test uses an independent temporary directory to avoid online configuration changes affecting other test cases [#16871](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16871) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)
    - Fix the issue that TiKV might panic during the conversion from Binary to JSON [#16616](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16616) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
    - Fix the issue that the output of the `raft region` command in tikv-ctl does not include the Region status information [#17037](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17037) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)
    - Fix the issue that slow `check-leader` operations on one TiKV node cause `resolved-ts` on other TiKV nodes to fail to advance normally [#15999](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15999) @[crazycs520](https://github.com/crazycs520)
    - (dup): release-6.5.9.md > 错误修复> TiKV - 修复 Peer 销毁过程被 apply snapshot 操作中断后，没有在 apply snapshot 完成后继续执行销毁操作的问题 [#16561](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16561) @[tonyxuqqi](https://github.com/tonyxuqqi)

>     - Fix the issue that the decimal part of the `DECIMAL` type is incorrect in some cases[#16913](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16913) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the decimal part of the `DECIMAL` type is incorrect in some cases [#16913](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16913) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi)
```

        - (dup): release-8.1.0.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复在 BR 恢复数据或 TiDB Lightning 物理导入模式下导入数据时，从 PD 获取到的 Region 没有 Leader 的问题 [#51124](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51124) [#50501](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50501) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - (dup): release-6.5.9.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复在某些极端情况下，全量备份因找不到 peer 导致 TiKV panic 的问题 [#16394](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16394) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - (dup): release-6.5.9.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复在日志备份任务被暂停后，移除任务无法立即恢复 GC safepoint 的问题 [#52082](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52082) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
        - Fix the unstable test case `TestClearCache` [#50743](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50743) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
        - Fix the issue that BR fails to restore a transactional KV cluster due to an empty `EndKey` [#52574](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52574) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)

>     - Fix the issue that rolling of the PD leader might cause BR to panic when restoring data [#53724](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53724) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that the transfer of PD leaders might cause BR to panic when restoring data [#53724](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53724) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
```

---
title: TiDB 7.5.2 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 7.5.2.
---

# TiDB 7.5.2 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 2024

TiDB version: 7.5.2

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/production-deployment-using-tiup)

## Compatibility changes <!--tw@lilin90 1 条-->

- (dup): release-6.5.9.md > 兼容性变更 - 在 TiKV 中提供 RocksDB [`track-and-verify-wals-in-manifest`](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v6.5/tikv-configuration-file#track-and-verify-wals-in-manifest-从-v659-版本开始引入) 配置，用于调查 WAL (Write Ahead Log) 可能损坏问题 [#16549](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16549) @[v01dstar](https://github.com/v01dstar)

> - (dup): release-7.1.4.md > 兼容性变更 - 为减少日志打印的开销，TiFlash 配置项 `logger.level` 默认值由 `"debug"` 改为 `"info"` [#8641](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8641) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)

Author: ```suggestion
```

- Must set the line terminator when using `strict-format` or `SPLIT_FILE` [#37338](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37338) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

> - Add the `sink.open.output-old-value` configuration item for TiCDC Open Protocol to control whether to output the value before the update to the downstream [#10916](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10916) @[sdojjy]([https://github.com/sdojjy)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add the `sink.open.output-old-value` configuration item for TiCDC Open Protocol to control whether to output the value before the update to the downstream [#10916](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10916) @[sdojjy]([https://github.com/sdojjy)
- In earlier versions, when processing a transaction containing `UPDATE` changes, if the primary key or non-null unique index value is modified in an `UPDATE` event, TiCDC splits this event into `DELETE` and `INSERT` events. Starting from v8.1.0, when using the MySQL sink, TiCDC splits an `UPDATE` event into `DELETE` and `INSERT` events if the transaction `commitTS` for the `UPDATE` change is less than TiCDC `thresholdTs` (which is the current timestamp that TiCDC fetches from PD at TiCDC startup). This behavior change addresses the issue of downstream data inconsistencies caused by the potentially incorrect order of `UPDATE` events received by TiCDC, which can lead to an incorrect order of split `DELETE` and `INSERT` events. For more information, see [documentation](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/ticdc-behavior-change#mysql-sink).
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In earlier versions, when processing a transaction containing `UPDATE` changes, if the primary key or non-null unique index value is modified in an `UPDATE` event, TiCDC splits this event into `DELETE` and `INSERT` events. Starting from v8.1.0, when using the MySQL sink, TiCDC splits an `UPDATE` event into `DELETE` and `INSERT` events if the transaction `commitTS` for the `UPDATE` change is less than TiCDC `thresholdTs` (which is the current timestamp that TiCDC fetches from PD at TiCDC startup). This behavior change addresses the issue of downstream data inconsistencies caused by the potentially incorrect order of `UPDATE` events received by TiCDC, which can lead to an incorrect order of split `DELETE` and `INSERT` events. For more information, see [documentation](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/ticdc-behavior-change#mysql-sink). [#10918](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10918) @[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu)

```

    + TiDB Binlog

        - note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-binlog/issues/${issue-id}) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})
        - note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-binlog/issues/${issue-id}) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB <!--tw@Oreoxmt 10 条-->

    - Fix the issue of inconsistent data indexes caused by concurrent DML operations when adding a unique index [#52914](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52914) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)
    - Fix the issue of inconsistent data indexes caused by adding indexes with multi-schema changes on partitioned tables [#52080](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52080) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - Fix the issue of inconsistent data indexes caused by adding multi-valued indexes [#51162](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51162) @[ywqzzy](https://github.com/ywqzzy)
    - Fix the issue that DDL operations get stuck due to network problems [#47060](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47060) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)

>     - Fix the connection blocking issue by upgrading `go-mysql` [#11041](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11041) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

        - (dup): release-8.1.0.md > 错误修复> Tools> TiCDC - 修复 `TIMEZONE` 类型的值没有按照正确的时区设置默认值的问题 [#10931](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10931) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
        - (dup): release-7.1.5.md > 错误修复> Tools> TiCDC - 修复上游写入 `Exchange Partition ... With Validation` DDL 后，TiCDC 向下游执行该 DDL 时失败，导致 changefeed 卡住的问题 [#10859](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10859) @[hongyunyan](https://github.com/hongyunyan)
        - (dup): release-6.5.9.md > 错误修复> Tools> TiCDC - 修复 KV Client 数据争用导致 TiCDC panic 的问题 [#10718](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10718) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
        - Fix the issue that updating the primary key or the unique key in upstream might cause data inconsistency between upstream and downstream [#10918](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10918) @[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu)

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

        - note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/${issue-id}) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})

>         - note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/${issue-id}) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the connection blocking issue by upgrading `go-mysql` [#11041](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11041) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
```

- 使用 strict-format / split_file 时必须设置行分隔符 [#37338](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37338) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

## Improvements

+ TiDB <!--tw@Oreoxmt 2 条-->

    - (dup): release-6.5.9.md > 改进提升> TiDB - 优化 `ANALYZE` 语句卡住元数据锁的问题 [#47475](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47475) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)
    - (dup): release-8.1.0.md > 改进提升> TiDB - 优化表达式默认值在 `SHOW CREATE TABLE` 结果中的 MySQL 兼容性 [#52939](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52939) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)
    - (dup): release-8.1.0.md > 改进提升> TiDB - 增强 TiDB 对始终为 `false` 的 DNF 项的处理能力，直接忽略这种过滤条件，以避免不必要的全表扫描 [#40997](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40997) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
    - Optimize the statistics for the execution process of the TiFlash `TableScan` operator in `EXPLAIN ANALYZE` [#51727](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51727) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)
    - Remove stores without Regions during MPP load balancing [#52313](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52313) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)

> + TiKV <!--tw@qiancai 3 条-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ TiKV <!--tw@qiancai 2 条-->
```

    - Adjust the log level of coprocessors to reduce unnecessary logs of the cluster [#15881](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15881) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)
    - Add monitoring metrics for the queue time for processing CDC events to facilitate troubleshooting downstream CDC event latency issues [#16282](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16282) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    - Fix the issue that TopN might be pushed down incorrectly [#37986](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37986) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - Fix the issue that an empty projection causes TiDB to panic [#49109](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49109) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
    - Fix the issue that Index Merge incorrectly pushes partial limit down when index plans are kept ordered [#52947](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52947) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
    - Fix the issue that a view does not work in recursive CTE [#49721](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49721) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - Fix the issue that the `UPDATE` statement might cause query errors due to unstable unique IDs of columns [#53236](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53236) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
    - Fix the issue that TiDB panics when using the `SHOW ERRORS` statement with a predicate that is always `true` [#46962](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46962) @[elsa0520](https://github.com/elsa0520)

>     - Fix the issue that `final agg` and `non-final` modes can not coexist in Massively Parallel Processing (MPP) [#51362](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51362) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that `final mode aggregation` and `non-final mode aggregation` can not coexist in Massively Parallel Processing (MPP) [#51362](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51362) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
```

    - (dup): release-7.1.5.md > 错误修复> TiDB - 修复某些情况下 `SHOW CREATE PLACEMENT POLICY` 语句不显示 `SURVIVAL_PREFERENCES` 属性的问题 [#51699](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51699) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
    - Fix the issue that IndexJoin produces duplicate rows when calculating hash values in the Left Outer Anti Semi type [#52902](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52902) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87)
    - Fix the issue that `TIMESTAMPADD()` function returns incorrect results [#41052](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41052) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)
    - Fix the issue that data conversion from the `FLOAT` type to the `UNSIGNED` type returns incorrect results [#41736](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41736) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)
    - Fix the issue the `TRUNCATE()` function returns incorrect results when its second argument is a large negative number [#52978](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52978) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87)

> + TiKV <!--tw@qiancai 11 条-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ TiKV <!--tw@qiancai 7 条-->
```

    - Fix the issue that `thread_id` values are incorrectly displayed as `0x5` in TiKV logs [#16398](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16398) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
    - Fix the issue of unstable test cases, ensuring that each test uses an independent temporary directory to avoid online configuration changes affecting other test cases [#16871](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16871) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)
    - Fix the issue that TiKV might panic during the conversion from Binary to JSON [#16616](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16616) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
    - Fix the issue that the output of the `raft region` command in tikv-ctl does not include the Region status information [#17037](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17037) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    - (dup): release-6.5.8.md > 错误修复> TiKV - 修复巴西和埃及时区转换错误的问题 [#16220](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16220) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
    - (dup): release-6.5.9.md > 错误修复> TiKV - 修复监控指标 `tikv_unified_read_pool_thread_count` 有时没有数据的问题 [#16629](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16629) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
    - (dup): release-6.5.9.md > 错误修复> TiKV - 修复 RocksDB 中非活跃的 WAL (Write Ahead Log) 可能损毁数据的问题 [#16705](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16705) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)
    - (dup): release-7.1.5.md > 错误修复> TiKV - 修复由于过时的 Region peer 忽略 GC 消息导致 resolve-ts 被阻塞的问题 [#16504](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16504) @[crazycs520](https://github.com/crazycs520)
    - (dup): release-6.5.9.md > 错误修复> TiKV - 修复乐观事务在执行期间被其它事务发起 resolve lock 时，如果事务的 primary key 上之前有通过异步提交 (Async Commit) 或一阶段提交 (1PC) 模式提交的数据，事务的原子性可能有小概率被破坏问题 [#16620](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16620) @[MyonKeminta](https://github.com/MyonKeminta)

>     - 修复 IndexJoin 在 Left Outer Anti Semi 类型下哈希值计算出重复行的问题 [#52902](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52902) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87)
>     - 修复 TimestampAdd 函数结果错误的问题 [#41052](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41052) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)
>     - 修复从 Float 类型转换为 Unsigned 类型时结果错误的问题 [#41736](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41736) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)
>     - 修复 Truncate 函数第二参数是大负数时结果错误的问题 [#52978](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52978) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
